greetings one and all and thanks for
downloading this latest episode of the
China history podcast today is the third
installment in our overview of the ching
dynasty the last dynasty of Imperial
Chinese history going back to 221 BC and
Qin Shi Huang last week we looked at the
reign of the Yong Chun Emperor and
before that we looked at the reign of
his father the Kangxi Emperor today we
look at the grand champion of champions
longest reigning emperor and China's 213
decades of Imperial history the Qin long
emperor he officially reigned from 1735
until 1796 now he lived on another three
years beyond 1796 but to show his filial
piety towards his esteemed grandfather
the Kangxi Emperor he retired rather
than reign longer than the 61 years of
the Kangxi period so all told he
actually ruled for 64 years louis xiv
reigned for 72 years so he's the real
champ actually the king of thailand just
passed the Qianlong emperor buyed
recently as far as longest reigning
monarchs go may he pass louis quatorze
as well uh the qin long emperor okay
let's just get comfortable get ready for
some history about all the goings-on
during his time the ching dynasty when
the qin long era begins is now already
90 years old they made some
modifications but the government and
political institutions during the ching
we're pretty much the same as what they
inherited from the mean of course there
were many changes on the surface to
account for manchu sensibilities but the
day to day functions of the government
were handled the same as during the
evening as we'll see the dynasty hits
the top of its trajectory in the 1760
1770s and then we'll see during the
latter part of Qin Long's reign in the
1780s and 90s there's terrible decay
from within and foreign powers begin to
exert all kinds of new stresses on the
imperial court his personal name was
holy and his temple name was God's own
he is known in all the history books as
the
perche enlong if you recall in the last
episode his father the Yong Chun Emperor
took every precaution to ensure a smooth
succession so when the fourth son of
Yong Chun came to the throne there were
no competitors to confuse or mess up the
transition he became Emperor when he was
24 years old
when he came to the throne in 1735 his
father had left him a very solid and
well-oiled effective machine of state
and the Treasury was filled to the brim
the Shen long emperor inherited his
father's to loyal ministers who helped
him get off to a good start
one was Manchu are tight and the other
Han Chinese John ting you jiong in fact
had served not only the Yong Chun
Emperor but kunshi as well so he served
three emperors faithfully and loyally
but factions had grown around each of
the two powerful ministers and you had a
Manchu Chinese all-out behind-the-scenes
competition going on but as we'll see
that Shen long Emperor was a big time
supporter of his Manchus especially
since he saw so many of the Manchu
sensibilities and virtues so fast
disappearing the chin long Emperor not
only came to symbolize the best of the
Ching dynasty he also had to take the
heat for failing to deal with all the
social problems that plagued China and
for failing to deal properly with the
intrusion of the West into China's
perfect little world when one Ponder's
the weakness that China exhibited before
the Western powers and the unforgivable
humiliations that followed the opium
wars of the age of imperialism it all
began right here folks with this Emperor
so let's start at the beginning
chin long was the favorite amongst his
grandfather Khan she's 100 grandchildren
kunshi died when the future emperor was
11 years old his father the Yong Chun
Emperor recognized something special in
this boy he was given a classical
education and was fluent in Mandarin
Manchu Mongol Weger and Tibetan he was
very close to his birth mother the
Empress Dowager Xiao Xiang the Qin long
Emperor remained intensely devoted to
his mother all the way up until she died
at the age of 85 must have it his mother
who passed on those strong genes for
longevity as the emperor lived to the
ripe old age of 87
but like such characters from Chinese
history like Chairman Mao or the
shinsung emperor of the Tang Dynasty
he was a great man who did great things
but lived too long and some of his
luster and shine was greatly diminished
on the back end of his reign but we'll
get into that later so the chin long
emperor was extremely devoted to his
mother and throughout his life went to
all kinds of lengths to honor her make
her comfortable and amused he visited
her every three days and had a meal with
her every five days he would honor her
at feasts and celebrations like any
filial son would and spent lavishly on
her like his grandfather the Shen long
Emperor loved to take all these grand
tours of the ground and whenever his
mother was physically up to it he took
her to and strangely even though his
mother the Empress Dowager was so close
to her son and so influential she never
got involved in court politics and there
are no stories of her being the the
scheming royal that passed in future
Empress dowager's often were he married
one of his consorts and they had a
loving marriage but she died young in
her 30s and 1748 and the Qianlong
emperor never again had such a close
partner in marriage it said he loved
poetry collecting art building and
enjoying gardens and palaces more than
he did wine women and song the Qianlong
Emperor was a very prolific poet himself
producing it said over 40,000 pounds but
alas and Mandarin we say by Xin Buyi
yeah a hundred stars aren't the same as
a single moon so let's just say that she
had long emperor had acquired a
reputation as sort of the Ed Wood so to
speak of 18th century Chinese poets he
didn't command a lot of respect for new
scholars although back then I'm sure
they told him he was Li Bai reincarnated
not a lot of praise has been handed down
from scholars about the quality of the
poetry produced by this
Ching Emperor he was addicted to art
collecting to a high degree his avarice
for new pieces of art was well-known
throughout his lifetime nobles and other
rich private collectors lived in
continual fear that he might hear about
some work or other that they owned and
then use his position as Emperor to
force them to hand it over as a gift or
a donation or whatever the Emperor was
famous for doing this the size of the
Imperial art collection during
qianlong's time is legendary when you
walk through the National Palace Museum
in Taipei or the or the GU going in
Beijing some of the greatest works
you'll see we have the Qianlong Emperor
to thank he did a great job building the
collections and accumulating such a
massive amount of art but he did one
thing that later connoisseurs
aficionados and art historians just
rolled their eyes and discussed at his
very common back in the day for the
owner of a piece of art to perhaps write
some kind of comment or perhaps a poem
where he might immortalize the painting
with his calligraphy the core or the
backbone of the great paintings that
make up the collections in Taipei and
Beijing we have the Qianlong Emperor to
thank and they're all immortalized with
the Emperor's calligraphy right there on
the painting he would get his two cents
in about what was on his mind when he
viewed the painting now art connoisseurs
didn't call this act immortalizing the
painting as much as they considered it
defacing the painting by a by an emperor
with a Donald Trump size do so on the
one hand whereas a guy like me looks at
the painting and says oh wow the you
know the actual calligraphy of the chin
long Emperor himself
well someone with more taste and
expertise might remark man how can
anyone let alone an emperor deface such
a masterwork of painting the famous
jesuit italian painter at giuseppe
Castiglione known in china as long
churning was alive and painting during
this chin long period he was a Western
painter who blended both Chinese and
Western methods and themes and was a
favorite of the Qianlong Emperor
that the emperor often let's just say
that GN long emperor never passed up a
chance to immortalize himself so let's
get into the main course here the life
and reign of the Shenlong Emperor as I
said brought the Ching to its height
from Tibet in the southwest Xin Jiang in
the north and all the way to Manchuria
Taiwan and of course the traditional
heartlands of China going back to the
beginning all was one single unified
Empire with the exception of Mongolia
when you look at a map of mid 18th
century China it's pretty much
indistinguishable from the map of the
People's Republic of China that you can
buy anywhere in any bookshop today the
greatest territorial extent of the
Empire happened on the Qianlong
Emperor's watch so he's credited with
this and he loved to bask in the
particular glory shown on him by this
achievement let's talk about the
extravagant side of the Qianlong Emperor
as I mentioned this guy had one heck of
an ego and a craving for applause
attention and anything that could be
pigeonholed into the shoe-shining
category so you can imagine how much he
embraced the whole notion of following
in his grandfather's footsteps and
taking these six grand tours of the
country and like I said he took his mom
along whenever she was up to it and
together they traveled to all the
legendary southern cities nanjing
hangzhou Soochow and unlike his less
ostentatious grandfather's more
economically friendly soldiers it was
always without exception first class all
the way wherever they went no expense
was spared to build gardens and palaces
temples and pavilions overlooking scenic
spots everywhere to accommodate the
Emperor and his Imperial entourage if
you recall from the June 29th show last
year on the Great Leap Forward when Mao
used to make his grand tours they did
the same thing for him too but of course
not on the scale or extravagance of the
Qianlong Emperor roads were specially
paved and heroic efforts were made by
workmen artisans to build pathways
and steps into the mountains so that the
litters bearing the Emperor and his
mother could be traversed safely and
they can enjoy the vistas from such
spectacular Heights and the cost of
these Grand Tours came from the Treasury
but was also supplemented by local
nobles and other rich Han Chinese who
had done well in the booming Ching
economy they had to cough up
extraordinary amounts to feed Imperial
whirlpool got too close to their worlds
and they had better hide their paintings
too yet to take every precaution around
this Emperor one of my favorite little
customs had its roots and these grand
tours sometimes to get a true feel for
the pulse of the people the Emperor
would go somewhere incognito and pose as
some kind of noble with retainers once
when he was down in the south of China
he had stopped at a tea house or in with
his guards and was taking in the scene
when suddenly the Emperor himself takes
the teapot in his own hands and pours
tea for one of the guards this was an
honor that someone in this guards
position might tell their grandchildren
about and their grandchildren would tell
the story for a hundred generations now
if this guard who had just had his tea
cup refilled did the right thing he
would have been down on the ground
banging his forehead to the floor
repeatedly in a way that you know you
might do before the Emperor but to do
this would give the Emperor's identity
away and with a celebrity like this you
know the Qianlong Emperor you had to be
careful so you know there could be
assassins or just an unruly mob or who
knows he couldn't give the Emperor's
identity away
so rather than kowtowing the guard
instead cleverly used his index and
middle fingers to represent his legs and
on the surface of the table use them to
represent the act of kneeling down and
bowing to the Emperor for such a kind
act and to this day folks when you're
enjoying an afternoon meal at any of the
finest or grungy as dim sum palaces and
Hong Kong Guangzhou or any Chinatown
across this great big world of ours
you'll see this southern Chinese custom
of tapping your fingers on the table as
a symbolic thank you whenever someone
fills your tea cup he was
the greatest builders of all time in
Chinese history in addition to all the
forced construction wherever he might
make his travels he gave the imperial
capital a total makeover he greatly
increased the size of the Forbidden City
and redesigned the summer palaces in the
western suburbs and in up in Manchuria
no skimping was allowed on any of his
projects he got personally involved and
made sure only the best materials were
used and the most reputable artisans and
workmen performed the work and he had
very good taste when it came to these
things and spared no expense all this
incredible building and beautification
pretty much got done during the first 30
years of the Qin long period thanks to
his father the Yong Chun Emperor there
was quite a lot of treasure to spend and
this common theme throughout history of
the father who makes all the money and
the son who spends it all certainly ring
true in this case the Emperor took an
incredible amount of heat from his court
questioning the necessity to build all
these monuments to his vanity well they
didn't exactly put it this way but
despite all the protestations the
Emperor took his lumps and just kept on
building I mean he countered to all this
criticism that while his building
projects gave work to the people and was
one form of redistributing wealth
it surely redistributed wealth that's
for sure
when you look at the scale of the
building and all the government
contracts involved and whatnot you can't
even begin to imagine the usual skimming
going on
unbelievable waste on magnitudes hard to
imagine it was like the famous $300
toilet seats and $900 hammers it was
just terrible government waste going on
and everyone was in on it and everyone
got their cut and not only that he was
fashionable to mimic the Emperor
you know monks the social elites
themselves shenlong's lifestyle also
encouraged a kind of waste and
ostentation among the whole upper strata
of society as we'll see later on in the
rain when Chen Long's military campaigns
made these fiscal demands on the
Treasury it had been
deplete it to the extent that he didn't
have the silver bars to throw around
like he once did and China suffered for
it
chin long more than anyone since the oh
boy
Regency was particularly hardcore about
the idea of man shoes being in charge
this of course was always a thorny
subject because they needed the Chinese
to help rural China and because they
were so completely outnumbered they they
had to keep the Chinese on their good
side but the Manchus were the conquerors
and it was a belief that ran hot and
cold about always making a concerted
effort to show who was in charge during
the time of Qianlong all kinds of
measures were taken to put the Hans in
their place the upper strata of
government had dual layers of officials
you had the Chinese guy who basically
did all the work and was the brains and
the Manchu guy who was the one in charge
and I exaggerated it but it went
something like that the chin long
emperor was very strict
during his reign regarding this point
and making sure that this Manchu dynasty
was ruled by Mancha's by the time of
shen long especially during the latter
part of his reign the Manchus had given
up a good deal of their enthusiasm to
cling to all their Manchu ways by the
end of Chen loans reign Manchu isn't
even being used at the imperial court
anymore so just as it had Lord their
church and ancestors of the Jean dynasty
from 11:15 to 12:30 for so did the ching
manchu people succumb to the
intoxicating pleasures and enticements
of chinese ways and culture his style of
governing was no way the micromanaging
hands on day-to-day type like his father
on the other hand he wasn't like the
kangxi emperor either who sort of let
the bureaucrats run things for him the
qin long emperor was a stern ruler who
could often be persuaded to be lenient
or to bend on his decision-making and
when it came to corruption you know the
one thing that really drove the
yung-chun Emperor crazy for Chen long
you often look the other way a lot of
his decisions and what really made this
Emperor go overboard was
anything whatsoever they could possibly
make him look bad or that he felt was an
affront against his Imperial Majesty his
big ego and obsession with his
self-image really drove him to act the
way he did as a ruler when you get right
down to it the Qianlong emperor wasn't a
leader who deserved accolades for his
wisdom and innovation or adaptability as
a ruler if he knew one thing it was how
to use his majesty and all the grandeur
of his office to get what he wanted but
what will see later on during the second
half or the last third of his reign when
it seemed it might never end no one
could remember a time when he wasn't the
Emperor his retainers and all those
officials closest to him played to his
vanity and the Emperor was easily
manipulated into acting or deciding in
certain ways
chin long has given credit for the
sponsorship of the scootch issue or the
complete library of the four treasures
or simply called the four treasures this
was another one of those massive works
like the Yola encyclopaedia or the gucci
to shuji tongue this encyclopedic work
consisted of a collection of everything
there was to know about the four
treasures of sure G and G or histories
philosophy literary works and classics
the first manuscript was given to the
Qianlong emperor in 1782 it was a
compilation of 3470 works with seventy
nine thousand nine hundred thirty two
chapters three hundred sixty million
words filling 36,000 large folio volumes
there were a total of seven manuscripts
made that employed scholars for years
four of the seven were kept in the
Imperial Palace for exclusive use by the
palace officials literati and the
Emperor of course those four three were
destroyed and only the Emperor's
original copy remains the other three
copies were kept in yang Cho Jun down
the vinegar capital of China and one in
Hangzhou those three were also destroyed
only a single copy made it through the
pockets of chaos and destruction from
1782 to the present day you could even
get a view of this great work online the
verdict is mixed on this couch and shoe
on the one hand of course it's
considered a great collection of
knowledge and culture all in one single
source many of the works included might
otherwise have been lost it's very well
the largest collection of literary works
in a single scholarly enterprise ever
undertaken at any time in history prior
to the rise of the Internet but one
thing I didn't mention yet was that the
chin long ever sort of initiated this
literary Inquisition the scholars
employed by the palace took liberties
with the translations and did some very
heavy editing government censors perused
everything looking for anything that was
disparaging to the emperor in any way
into the manchu people so on the one
hand we're all happy to have the four
treasures I think for any scholar lover
of Chinese culture I think all they're
thankful for having it but let's just
say the authorship and the content is
always suspect there were five things
they were sort of taboo during the chin
long era first and foremost was anything
smelling of Pro Ming sentiment or
showing the ching and a negative light
compared to the Ming Dynasty the second
thing that was downright frowned upon in
a big way was talk of restoring the Ming
and there was always this kind of talk
going on so so repressive where the
measures taken to stamp out any hint of
a call to restore the Ming that it led
to a lot of underground resentment and
later spawned various secret societies
also right out was anything that was
disparaging of not only Manchus in any
shape or form but also against their
Mongol cousins and these times being
what they were times of loose morals if
there ever was one any kind of literary
porn was aggressively stamped out the
last thing that kept the censor is busy
and gainfully employed were writings on
military strategy or military science so
chin long as great as he was he
little thing about freedom of the press
let's look at another signature
achievement credited to the Shenlong
Emperor this was known as the ten
victorious campaigns or the suretrend go
chin long wasn't the kind of emperor to
lead his troops into battle but once in
a while he would take them almost to the
edge of the battlefield and see them off
now to a certain extent these campaigns
were fueled in part by the Qianlong
Emperor's craving for Military Glory
of the ten campaigns - were to pacify
rebellions by the Jean chuan people who
were Tibetan tribal people from around
Western su chuan these were early on in
1747 1749 and again in 1771 in 1776 and
it cost a fortune to put these
rebellions down two of the campaign's
were against the tongue gars and
northwest Shing John frum 1755 to 1757
these were the most important of the ten
campaigns by a mile
these victories in Shenzhen brought the
whole of Chinese Turkestan into China
proper so now the Manchus controlled the
north from the east and Manchuria across
Mongolia and now Xin Jiang was pacified
and brought into the fold without the
competition from the now defeated some
gars and this many say is Chen Long's
greatest and longest lasting achievement
for bringing Tibet and Xinjiang into
China proper and securing the extent of
the territory that we know today is
China the other six victorious campaigns
were against Turkic Muslims of southern
Xinjiang in 1758 and 59 and then
suppression of a rebellion in Taiwan in
1787 and 88 and then there was a costly
border war with Burma from 1766 to 1770
there were also two campaigns to expel
the Gurkhas from southern tibet and back
to nepal where they came from
last there was another border war with
UNAM from 1788 1789 and that war was the
last one China would fight with their
tough little Vietnamese neighbors to the
south until
1979 some of these wars were more
critical than others but all told these
10 victorious campaigns was another
series of landmark events in the long
reign of the Qianlong Emperor now from
1775 to $70.99 the last quarter-century
of Chen Long's life there was a shady
character named Clos shun a Manchu who
was to become a sort of Rasputin like
confidant of the Emperor and called all
the shots for over two decades and was
the source of most of the terrible
corruption and government waste that
characterized the final years of the
Qianlong era well there's a long story
about ho shun about how as a 25 year old
nobody basically he caught the attention
of the Emperor some say was homosexual
love because this shun was allegedly
quite an attractive young man some say
he reminded the Emperor of his favorite
concubine who had committed suicide due
to some innocent prank committed by the
Emperor whatever the case may be shunned
became inseparable from the Emperor and
let's just say that her shun has gone
down as one of the most corrupt
officials and all of Chinese history so
you can imagine what kind of fun he had
controlling the Qianlong emperor in his
increasingly frailer years after a while
the Emperor just ran out of steam and
just left matters completely in the
hands of ho shun but the Emperor did not
die and kept on going even his own son
who took over as the cha-ching Emperor
had admitted that his father lived too
long seven years before the death of
this emperor in 1792 what is called the
greatest novel in Chinese history was
unleashed on the public it was known by
two different names dream of the red
chamber and the story of the stone home
no Hmong and shirt og the author was
it's how she it was written
sometime during the middle of Chen
Long's rains so we can say basically
about the time when everything was just
about peaking in the 120 chapters of
this novel with its
hundreds of rich characters and detailed
look at Qing Dynasty Chinese society one
meets the Jia family and the three main
characters in a love triangle Jia baoyu
Lin Daiyu and shitball chai through the
mega rich and privileged Jia family one
gets a close-up look at the day-to-day
life in elite society the dream of the
red chamber is filled with sex and
non-stop sexual innuendo but aside from
all that it's both a masterpiece of
world literature and if you could keep
all the characters straight a very
fantastic read it's all Shia Chien died
before he could finish the novel in 1763
but others picked up the mantle for him
and had it finished off and it was one
of the biggest things to happen in 1792
the 1790s was not a good decade for the
Ching the scale of the graft and
corruption going on throughout China was
unprecedented the whole country was
plundered by anyone who had a dog in any
race no matter what for both military
and civil affairs too many people along
the chain of command were on the take
and by the 1790s it all caught up to the
Ching Empire now they started the decade
off nicely by booting the Gurkhas out of
Tibet and securing political control
over affairs there but the cost was
exhausting to the Treasury and as I said
who knows for every tale of silver
spends how many went into the pockets of
whoever but the government began to
falter the lean mean fighting machine
that the Yong Chun Emperor left behind
under his son that she and long emperor
had grown slow and efficient and flabby
in its old age by this time the Qianlong
Emperor was into his 80s and not at the
top of his game anymore
he was totally under the control of her
shun in fact when Lord George McCartney
came calling in 1793 he mentions Kishan
being there and handed down to posterity
his thoughts about the evil and corrupt
handler of the frail Qianlong Emperor by
1792 when lord mccartney well he was
earl mccartney back then left london on
his mission to china british tea culture
was in full swing and builders tea was
all the rage
if only the East India Company could get
more supply the potential and sales
seemed endless by the 1790s Westerners
were still knocking on China's door like
a pushy salesman who won't go away these
Westerners with their Western ways that
even today caused many Chinese to feel a
little queasy and uneasy they were
aggressively knocking on the door and
trying to obtain the Holy Grail no not
the cup of our Lord used at the Last
Supper but new treaty ports to trade at
where they could buy as much tea as
possible tea tea tea now that the common
Brits could also enjoy their cuppa like
the swells and Knightsbridge there never
seemed to be enough tea in China to feed
this exploding market tea was sort of
like an iPad back in the 18th century it
was a hot item and sold out a Susan hit
the market all China trade had to go
through one port Canton the big
bottleneck these early Westerners least
of all the East India Company weren't
gonna take no for an answer
they had to get more ports open so if
not for this if not for these foreigners
first out of the starting gate and first
to enjoy the earliest benefits of the
Industrial Revolution who knows and what
direction ching dynasty china might have
gone how much longer they might have
lasted but when all this starts to
happen in the mid 18th century that
chien long emperor goofs big time and
china later pays for this miscalculation
this was the miscalculation of the
century you might say when the Western
powers showed up in Japan later on in
1853 the Japanese observed the situation
and said well we got to be like them or
else they're gonna walk all over us but
when the chin long emperor was faced
with the same situation half a century
earlier
he said what do we got to worry about
these guys for his legendary reply to
George the third went sorta like this
first he tells the King sorry but the UK
doesn't really have anything we need or
want then in response to the 600 or so
carefully packed crates with the
greatest manufacturers Britain was
capable of producing the Qianlong
Emperor he replied quote we have never
valued ingenious articles nor do we have
the slightest need of your country's
manufacturers therefore o King as
regards to your request to send someone
to remain at the capital while it is not
in harmony with the regulations of the
celestial Empire we also feel very much
that it is of no advantage to your
country and with that he sent Lord
McCartney packing the British envoy
didn't get any of the diplomatic rights
he expected nor did he get any
additional treaty ports open the lousy
Canton system that the East India
Company hated was to remain the only
game in town and last but not least as
far as fixing tariffs to a reasonable
number forget about it that didn't
happen either you want to do business
with China it has to be their way or
stay out Lord McCartney had time to
think about this as he made his way back
to Canton he passed through the belly of
China and what he saw he famously noted
in his journals he said quote the Empire
of China is an old crazy first-rate mana
war which a fortunate succession of able
and vigilant officers has contrived to
keep afloat for these 150 years past and
to over all their neighbors merely by
her bulk and appearance but with lesser
men at the helm China would slowly drift
until - to pieces on the shore in other
words Lord McCartney saw the reality of
China was far from what people saw on
the outside he noted this and duly
reported his findings 50 years later you
had the Treaty of Nanjing ouch
so the Qianlong Emperor
to take the rap for the wastefulness and
ostentation that came to define his era
and for the backwardness china suddenly
saw in itself but thanks to how he
handled the mccartney mission of 1793 he
also has to be the bad guy who had such
an inward-looking mentality that he
forced china to miss the first of
several chances to modernize and open up
to the outside world you know his first
30 years were so spectacular whatever
negative you could say about him he
still ruled the greatest empire on earth
but for the last 30 years and especially
towards the end of his life he was an
old man who had been praised too much
for his entire life and actually
believed his own press so to speak in
the end he wasn't capable to make any
important or difficult decisions in the
end that xi'an long emperor was all
grandeur and little substance so when he
did the whole resignation thing in 1796
so as not to outshine the great kunshi
emperor it really wasn't even about his
grandfather it was all about himself and
as I said he kept on going like the
Energizer Bunny until February of 1799
when at last he passed from this earth
and his son officially took over as the
JA Qing Emperor the Qianlong Emperor and
George Washington they died in the same
year so even though the King has passed
its peak it was still a fabulous first
hundred and fifty years the population
in China now was well over 300 million
and starting to exerts great pressure on
society in the government and for the
next century three things will dominate
Chinese history one is domestic
rebellion and another was foreign
invasions the third was the King
government's pathetic attempts to
maintain and preserve power in the face
of horrible suffering by the Chinese
people when the Chen lung emperor
breathed his last the White Lotus
rebellion was in full gear so hopeless
had the peasants be common so
everyday Chinese society in the
countryside with all the corruption and
failure of government services peasants
rose up the White Lotus society dated
from the Mongol days it was a religious
sect that claimed the Maitreya Buddha
would descend into the world and it
would restore the Ming Dynasty and
eradicate all disease and suffering and
give people heaven on earth you know the
usual stuff by the time the Qianlong
emperor was breathing his last it had
already spread to Ho Bay su chuan is
Xiang XI right around the geographic
center of China there was little if any
Ching administration way out in the
middle of nowhere where this whole
rebellion began it started in 1796
overtax collection what else is new and
sort of broke out spontaneously all over
the region there so the White Lotus
rebellion breaks out in 1796 and right
when you needed a strong army to nip
this one in the bud so to speak there's
insufficient funds to send anything of
substance to stamp it out so it spreads
quickly and it's still raging when the
JA Qing Emperor takes the throne and it
will be up to him to put this down which
he does and try to restore China to the
greatness seen under the kunshi and jung
jung and of course the early years of
his father qianlong's reign but as we'll
see just like Barack Obama faced when he
took over the American presidency the
cha ching emperor couldn't control
events events controlled him however one
of the first things he did when he
became Emperor was to have son killed
and we'll check this all out next week
when we do our Ching dynasty part 4
episode now we're moving into a time
period that most Chinese would just as
soon forget about it's hard to imagine
you look at China today and compare it
to the 19th century giant that was just
getting pushed around by everyone even
the Japanese so that's what we're
getting ourselves into for the next few
weeks I think we'll need 2 or maybe 3
episodes to finish off the Ching and
then that's it
and so I thank everyone who made it this
far I hope you enjoyed this little
overview of the chin lung era this is
your host and humble narrator Laszlo
Montgomery wishing all of you
interesting and good-looking listeners
all over the world a fond farewell as
usual but not always I'm signing off
from a hot and perfectly sunny Claremont
California it's gonna be 30 degrees
Celsius tomorrow
take care all thanks for downloading and
listening and I hope to see you again
next week for another exciting episode
of the China history podcast